# KAPy derived variables configuration

*Configuration of derived variables is set through a tab-separated table, with one row per variable. Note that the same schema is used for secondary and tertiary varibles - the main difference is the order in which they processed (primary > secondary > bias-adjustment > tertiary). Note that new variables declared here can refer to other derived variables, as long as they have already been declared higher up in the configuration table. All options are required.*

## Properties

- **`id`** *(string)*: Code by which to refer to the variable e.g. `tas`, `SPI`, `pr` etc.
- **`inputVars`** *(array)*: Comma-separated list of input variables to be used in generating this new variable.
- **`outputVars`** *(array)*: Comma-separated list of output variables generated by the script. Some functions generate more than one variable at a time e.g. FWI and this is where they should be listed. Currently limited to one but will be extended in the future - issue #92 https://github.com/Klimaatlas/KAPy/issues/92. Length must be equal to 1.
- **`processorType`** *(string)*: What sort of processor will be used to calculate the new variable. Functions can be taken from an installed python module `module` or a python `script` containing a function. Must be one of: `["module", "script"]`.
- **`processorPath`** *(string)*: The path to the processor. When `processorType` is `module`, the name of the module - otherwise the path to the python `script` containing the function to be used, relative to the working directory.
- **`processorFunction`** *(string)*: The name of the function to be used to calculate the new variable.
- **`passXarrays`** *(boolean)*: Should KAPy pass xArray objects to the function? If no, then then path to the input file is passed as a string instead.
- **`additionalArgs`** *(string)*: Additional arbitrary arguments specified as a dict to be passed to the function via keyword arguments. e.g. `{'param1':10,'doSim':true,'name':'myname'}`. Can be an empty dict if no there are no additional parameters. e.g. `{}` `.
